In the last video I showed you a method, number one for making changes to a deployment at the very
end of the video.
I told you that we would really be well served to not have to specify the version of an image inside
of our deployment config file.
The reason for that is that if we have to ever open up this file just to change the version of some
image, that's always a possibility of introducing some kind of error.
We could very easily accidentally make a typo somewhere, or we could actually type in the incorrect
version number.
And so it would be really great if we could figure out some way to not have to specify the version whatsoever.
And that's what we're going to do inside this video.
Okay.
Let's take a look at a series of steps that are going to outline exactly how this is going to work.
This is method number two.
The first thing we're going to do is to make sure that our deployment is using the latest tag in the
pod spec section.
So back inside of that config file, we'll find that image version right there and we can change it
to either latest like so.
Or remember, if we just leave off that designation entirely, then Docker assumes that we want to use
latest so we can either put on latest or just leave it off entirely.
It is up to you.
Well, then save this file.
Now, remember, just saving this config file does nothing whatsoever.
We have to actually take this config file and apply it to our cluster.
So let's do that right now so that the deployment inside of our cluster understands that it should try
to use the latest version image.
So back at my terminal I'm going to make sure that I'm inside that infra k aids directory.
And there's the deployment file right there.
So we'll do a little apply chef post dash double HTML.
Okay.
So we've now updated our deployment and we've told it to try to use the latest version.
Now, at this point in time, if you do a little get deployments and you see that we are not running
one pod, that is totally okay.
So if you see an error or anything like that right now, don't sweat it.
Let's now go through the series of steps we have back here.
So our deployment is now using the latest tag in the pod spec section.
So now step number two, we are going to go ahead and make an update to our code.
So let's make an update to our post code base.
We'll then rebuild the image and then we're going to take that image and push it up to up to Docker
Hub.
So I'm going to go back over to my editor.
I'll find the Post Project Directory and the indexed JS file inside there.
Here's the change that we made just a moment ago.
So let's make another change right now.
I'm going to change the V 20 to maybe version 55.
Maybe we're just doing huge updates here.
Who knows what?
Whatever.
We've got some change.
So I'll save that file.
And then we are going to once again rebuild this image.
So back at my terminal, I'll go back into our OSS directory.
And inside there we will rebuild the image with Docker Build Dash TX, your docker id slash posts and
then a dot at the very end.
Again to designate that we want to use all the code inside of posts.
Okay.
So we've now rebuilt this image.
You'll notice that we have this implicit version added on of latest.
So we're now going to take that image.
And push it up to Docker Hub.
So back at my terminal, I'll do a Docker push.
My darker ID posts.
That's going to take the image that we just built and attempt to push it up to Docker Hub.
Now, just to save a little bit of time, I already built this thing and pushed it up a moment ago just
to save time in this video.
But for you, it's probably going to take a minute or two to actually take all the image data and throw
it up to Docker Hub, which is totally fine.
Okay.
So we've now pushed all these versions or this latest version up to Docker Hub.
So now we want to somehow tell our deployment to use that latest version.
To do so, all we have to do is run CTL rollout, restart deployment, and then the name of the deployment
itself.
Let's try that out right now.
I'm going to first get all my deployments just to make sure I recall the name of the deployment.
There it is right there.
And they'll do a little.
Rollout restart deployment.
And then the name of our deployment is Post Dash Depot.
Okay.
So it looks like the deployment has now been restarted.
So let's now do a get deployments again.
It looks like we do have one pod running.
Let's get a list of all of our pods and just make sure that it's using the latest version of our code
now.
So we'll do a cube.
It'll get pods.
There is our pod.
It looks like it was created just 18 seconds ago.
That's definitely a good sign.
So let's now try to get logs out of this pod and just make sure that we see that v 55 in there just
to make sure that we are using the latest version of our code.
So I'll do a little logs and then the name of the pod.
And there we go.
There's our 55.
Awesome.
Okay.
So again, two versions or two methods to update the image used by a deployment.
You've got method number one, which is going to require us to specify a version number inside of our
config file, which is something that we don't really like to do.
So instead, I recommend going with this solution right here.
We're going to just always use the latest tag, make an update to our code, push the image to Docker
Hub and then run that command and we're good to go.
Our cluster is now running the latest version of all of our code.
All right.
Now that we've got this all put together, one last thing around the world of Kubernetes in just a moment.
So I'll see you in just a minute.